seven lessons from hiring a ceo that is
smarter than me i've been an
entrepreneur for roughly 22 years now
when i started out i wanted to be the
head honcho you know the ceo the one in
charge and ideally i wanted to be the
ceo of a really big company and maybe
one day that company would be publicly
traded on the stock exchange over the
years i've learned two things about
myself first i am a terrible manager
when it comes to managing a large amount
of people such as 100 plus people 10 20
people no problem i'm just not good when
it comes to a large organization with
layers
the second thing that i learned is i
don't think it's fun to be a manager or
a leader
some people enjoy it i enjoy some
aspects of it as well but i don't enjoy
most of it for example i love helping
people grow and teaching them new things
but i don't enjoy tons of meetings or
quarterly planning or a lot of the other
things that are required from a good ceo
so over the years i've built a business
model in which i'm never the ceo of my
own company instead i hire people who
are smarter than me and have done it
multiple times before and i make them
the ceo right if they were the ceo of
other companies in my industry and did
really well there's a good chance that
they'll also do it well for me too
so here are seven lessons that i learned
from hiring other talented ceos and
executives over the year
lesson one people grow a business it
doesn't matter if you're elon musk or
bill gates without a team it's really
hard to be successful
but here's the thing good people follow
good people around
and good people don't follow bad people
around just because someone was the ceo
of another competing company it doesn't
mean they were good and you want good
people or else they will bring over
mediocre talent which means you won't
grow so you need to do some searching
for a ceo or any leader to make sure
that they have amazing industry
experience second they had to be at
those jobs for a while so if they have a
good portfolio they need to be there for
a while and they need to have worked
their way up in those companies because
if they work their way up that means
other people found them to be valuable
and the chances are they'll do well for
you this reduces the chance of having
bad people within your organization as
that can be toxic and that can slow down
growth
lesson two
as a marketer i always believe that the
best way to grow a company is marketing
combined with a good product or service
and keep in mind i'm young
being that i'm in my 30s i don't have as
much experience as some of these
seasoned executives who are in their 50s
or 60s one thing i learned from working
with these seasoned executives is that a
business also grows with time in essence
if you're in business long enough such
as 10 or 20 years you get growth through
just word of mouth that's how most
companies grow and you shouldn't take it
for granted you just have to be patient
as it's hard to manufacture that
lesson three experience doesn't always
equal to being right by no means do i
think i know everything if i did i would
be the ceo of my own company versus
hiring one but what has allowed me to
continually build companies that are
successful and grow fast is that i think
outside the box and i'm always willing
to try new things to achieve better
growth especially ones that my
competition think are a waste of time
and they aren't willing to try out a lot
of times when you hire good ceos they
are jaded by their experience they
believe that there's a certain way to do
things and for most things they'll want
to do it their way only but there can be
more efficient ways to do things new
ways especially because of technology
such as ai or machine learning
encourage people in your company to
think outside the box and challenge
conventional wisdom
if you don't do this your growth will be
mediocre like everyone else's
lesson four don't try to do everything
your way
you are hiring a ceo or executive
because they can do a job better than
you
if they can't don't hire them but when
you hire them you have to let them do
certain things their way you can't have
the your way or highway mentality
as the saying goes there are multiple
ways to skin a cat
your way may be correct but their way
may also be correct too in other words
there's multiple ways to achieve the
same end result and as long as the end
result is achieved you shouldn't be too
picky lesson five you can't take culture
for granted culture helps you recruit
and retain people culture
helps you build an amazing company that
builds a great product or service that
people love it also helps you make an
impact with your team members your
customers and even the world if you
don't hire people who have similar
beliefs and values then it's not going
to work unless you're willing to make
the culture theirs
if someone checks all the boxes but not
the cultural one
you shouldn't hire them it usually won't
work out in the long run
lesson six
ceos have to set an example i hate
hiring executives who only want to
manage and tell other people what to do
i look for player coaches they of course
should be able to run a company and
manage people but they have to be
willing to get their hands dirty and do
work themselves i want them to be a
great individual contributor for at
least a portion of their time as your
company skills it'll be less and less
but it's important because it sets an
amazing example for everyone else the
last thing you want is a bloated company
with a ton of people who barely work
when hiring managers or executives be
direct with them and let them know that
you expect to be a player and a coach
lesson seven
talent and brains can't replace hard
work i used to hire really smart people
who were naturally talented and just
work great at what they did but many of
those people were just lazy these days i
don't care if someone went to harvard
stanford heck i don't even care what
their grades were in college or even if
they have a college degree if someone
isn't a hard worker you are screwed
because if they aren't willing to work
hard how can you expect the rest of the
company to work hard again i would make
this known when you are hiring but you
need people who are smart talented and
really really hard working
if you have any questions about hiring
you can leave a comment below i'm here
to help you out if you're struggling to
hire marketing talent and you just want
someone to do it all for you check out
my ad agency np digital where we help
companies grow if you enjoyed the video
like it share it tell the people about
it thank you very much